Okay, uh, and so.
So,
after during all this time,
uh,
what happened was we also,
normal,
primarily implemented and somewhat similar um,
we could,
uh,
we had like,
new APIs there we had learning.
So we thought we should probably use those learnings if we were to do.
In some cases, uh, some, uh, folks have also said, or reported that the child channel, there was the performance overhead.
There's a lot of bootstrapping required to create channels so they, we thought that okay, uh, perhaps we should take this also as a point.
Uh, and figuring out whether we can resolve this.
Uh, other, uh, bits were that there was.
And not a ton of visibility on the control frames. Um.
Being exchanged on the, um, on the channel, uh, because like, we, it, it doesn't go through the entire pipeline. Um, so that we want to do improve essentially.
There are few other things, which were kind of hampering for, like.
Top level frameworks, um, are built on top of maybe an example of that, is that we, we tied close and go away. So so basically, we had to give, like, books to basically disable that. So, so learning from all that we wanted to make, like, more, uh.
Open clickable so that framework scan built on top of the existing.
Um, so that essentially like like the wise as to why we, uh, went on this, uh, essentially, uh.
Work item to see what can change and the goal is kind of simple here. What we want to do is to create a single API.
Uh, and our primary motivation is to provide, uh, uh, as close to, um, traditional APIs, which is channel based. So every stream will be a channel in the API that essentially is the goal.
Uh, another like, experimental is, as I mentioned before about the child channel performance, uh, essentially, uh.
When we are doing this API, our intent is to so figure it out, whether we can't do anything, uh, which can improve the performance in general.
Reduce the overhead.
Um, alright.
Scott, I mean, like, I can't see the chat on my screen, so if there is something just please interrupt me anytime.
Um, okay, yeah, there was 1 question for Moses. Okay. Okay. Yeah. Yeah.
Would you want us to do? Yeah. Yeah. So my question was around the child channel performance issues and we've seen this a little too also from you is what you were saying. It sounded like it was bootstrapping problems. So the problem was around.
Having to do set up and tear down for the channel on each screen. Yeah. Um.
It's from white from the wave.
It's currently described it sounds like the new API would also have that problem. So what are the kinds of experiments you're considering to alleviate.
Yeah,
good question I mean,
uh,
at this point what we have,
in the in the what it has is there is a concept of a raw channel,
uh,
which basically doesn't create channels channels but you can,
you can use the basic channel as you would,
in ready to pass frames.
Uh, but that again is experimental that the 1st attempt uh, ideally, what we want to do here is once we have the channel channel setup, uh, we would like performance test and see, where are the bottlenecks to, to get the next steps going.
But still like early stages so it's.
Sorry, go ahead. I also hear, um, question about that. Uh, especially for quick where you again create channels, do you expect to have changes there?
And go ahead. Yeah, and quick, I mean, quick is still like.
Incubating so, I mean, there could definitely be changes. I think if we find.
Good trade off to make, like, the general creation cheaper in the in a sense for, um, then we will probably do the same in the quick layer.
I mean, we definitely have the same problem there as well at the moment. I mean, it's, it's not a big deal if you have, like, long living streams, but it's definitely.
Bigger deal if it's like short living right? Because you, you need to create a channel, you register it. You, you know, like you populate the pipeline, send like, multiple events just to maybe get 1 frame.
So, you may end up to have, like, 4 extra events just to get, like, 1 frame, which is a little bit.
I would say, well, it's not really bad, but it's.
It doesn't feel right in the, in the sense of, of, you know, like the balance between overhead and the abstraction.
So maybe 1 thing we could do, but like, like you just said, it's probably a little bit earliest to try to, um.
To combine events, for example, or something like this. I'm not sure about this. So, maybe make pipeline, like, setting up pipelines more cheaper than it is.
At the moment, but I think whatever we find that works for is definitely the same that we would back port to to quick or the other way around.
Um, I'll mention as far as the the.
Problem okay, there it's going I'll mention as far as the problems that you listed. Some of those were not in the original.
Pr that I started with HB, 2 stuff, it was introduced as we were trying to get.
Performance up, and some things like that, like, there were.
They were, they were choice decisions like like all the frames, uh, all the control frames. Don't necessarily pass. My my original implementation did pass them all, but we were fighting the performance issues.
So, um.
There's, there's some stuff here I see about maybe doing the child channel differently, but how.
How could we end up passing all of those events back and forth and not be concerned about it? Where, before we were seeing object allocation overhead or other things come into play.
No, it's, it's a good question. And again, again, like, this is, this is this is early days so I think we would, we would definitely learn and thanks for bringing that up that it was how it was and then, uh, we, uh, kind of changed it. So, I'm I'm totally in here to, uh.
Change yes, we do. I think the advantage we have with 5.0 is like, we can take a hard look at the more core features. Like, what is the channel life cycle? How does initialization of the pipeline work?
And, like, we know that there's some potential regression between these different APIs. However.
The challenge channel API is much more true to Neti and allows you to reuse handlers, et cetera. So.
We have a vested interest in, like, making that work and, you know, performance be as good as possible. So, um, yeah, I think there's work still to be had here, but we know.
You know, we've seen it ourselves, um, in terms of the transition between the 2 APIs. Um, so an area of interest, I would say at this point.
I will say 1 thing that made it harder to follow the PR, is that.
Like, let's like that part about all the control flames frames don't pass, uh, between the, the child and the, the parents.
Most applications really wouldn't notice that.
Um, like, if we started passing them, that is sort of a change that we could maybe.
Do without impacting very many people so basically we were talking about oh, let's change the API, but a lot of it actually seems more implementation level.
So, it wasn't.
It was requiring quite a bit of digging to sort of tease apart. What things are we trying to just improve in the implementation versus which things are more API level and will impact, uh, more callers.
Okay, okay, I mean, hopefully like this discussion with Eric, uh, and, uh.
Yeah, uh, they can, we can, we can call it out essentially.
Um, cool. All right.
Let's let's move on, uh, the next steps like that I have here are the next set of slides are essentially to go over the changes. The abstractions essentially. Um.
So, again, like, for her who have not seen, uh, this is basically a PR that we are going over in this, um.
In these slides, um, the 1st, thing that I would want to go over is like, how the channel is set up.
Uh, this image I have copied it from the, from the PR side is a little pixelated, but I'll, I'll go over this, uh, these things that happen.
Uh, so, at a, at a high level, um, we have, uh, we have 2 channels set up, or more than 1 channels that have 1, is the paid in channel.
Which is social connection, and as in when, uh, new streams are set up on that connection, we create new channel, new channels per stream, including the control stream.
Uh, and any new request stream that is, uh, established, we'll have a channel, uh, for it.
Um, then, uh, we'll go as to how the messages, uh, flow essentially, uh, 1st, side is the read side. So read, uh, happens on the parent channel. Uh, and the thing that firstly comes up is the decoder.
So, on the parent channel, we basically try to decode read frames and create an frame instance.
Which, uh, goes ahead into, uh.
The flow control handler, um, uh, uh, which basically reads the.
The flow control, related frames and maintain state per stream, uh, for, uh, uh, for those frames basically.
Uh, then there is an entity called a frame.
Uh, which, uh, the information about, hey.
I got a frame, I read a frame, it has the stream ID where is the, the channel for the stream ID and when it looks up into the map and it basically fires the event on that, uh, on that channel.
Which is the, which 1st goes through the unsafe, which, which implements the Navy flow control uh, which, um, which you all know is about, like, read and read complete methods.
So, based on that, whether there is a pending read or not, uh, either, it will buffer, uh, the message inside the unsafe or.
Uh,
when it does pass it through,
this is a new concept that we have added,
uh,
which are called validators,
um,
which are taken from uh,
but the,
the positive of using these validators are essentially that we can all the validation,
which is like,
frame,
um,
related in the scans,
like,
which frames are allowed with sequence of frame is allowed is encapsulated inside a single handler,
which makes it easier to,
like you said about.
Once it passes through the validators it goes into the user handlers that are specified for that.
Questions, so what what does the encoder do.
On the child stream, but.
Good question that was in the in the right side. So next I'll go to the right side. So that's good.
Any other question.
Or upgrades handles, uh.
Like, uh, like, lpn based, or, um, uh, 1 to like, the.
Okay, uh, either or upgrades.
So, and that's another bit that we have that, uh, that is in the, in the next few slides. There is, there is a new entity called, like the.
To SSL context, which encapsulates the lpn, uh, configurations.
Um, but it happens on the channel on the same today.
But, basically, this is something like, uh, what you have now for quickest context, where you have the.
Application, uh, protocol. That's correct. Yes. That is what it is.
Okay, um, he asked what about.
Yes, that's correct. Yeah. Yeah. So I, uh, so, uh, that was 1 of the discussions, uh, that, um.
That we were having internally as to, whether it should be support upgrades or not.
Uh, but if it were to be, uh, it would, it can happen on the parent channel essentially.
That's what I understand. It doesn't the PFC doesn't have it today.
Is it.
Just 3rd um, yeah, because, uh, for the text also, it may be interesting to note that tax upgrades are basically duplicated.
Yeah, so there's an open issue in the, um.
Um, for the next, uh, revision of it, and they basically remove, um, the clear text upgrade.
So, that was step. Yeah, that's essentially the reason why you were thinking, should be supported or not.
Julian, you had you had a question? Yep. Uh.
On the message on the channels.
Is it is it plan to reuse the existing HTP messages? Or is it, uh, new messages that will be used.
Yeah, good question I think the 2 things here 1 is like, the mess like object hierarchy and frames.
So this basically has, like, we have changed the to frame definition in the, because it is using buffer, which is a new API and it is a little bit different from what exists today.
But, like, what we do today, we would have a adapter for and vice versa.
So there will be and those adapters will be mandatory or can we work with the native, uh, frames if you want instead of using.
Yes, send it to this. Oh, totally. Yeah, you can you can directly work with the frames and that's essentially the expected. Wait. Okay so if you use the setup, it will look.
A lot like the HDP 2 chilled API, right?
Uh, actually, like, without the adapters frames are what flows in on the child panel pipeline. Oh, okay. I see. I see. I see. And we can use that if you want.
Exactly, if you want it to look just like 1, then you can use the doctors.
Okay, because 11 concern, I think is also a.
I don't know much about it, but it's the but.
Yeah, and it would be good to I think as far as I understand it.
That we need to use that if you want to use the count web sockets to check.
That is an interesting question. Now when do you do you know, how does web socket work today on and does it.
I actually have no idea. I never looked into.
Uh.
So, what were you saying is different about the objects that are flowing other than the buffer type being different.
Uh, so so this has, um, doesn't reuse what is there today.
In in, uh.
It has its own hierarchy, but.
But, I mean, it is similar to what it was. Uh, the biggest change is the buffer, uh, thing.
Okay, but we would expect, I mean, it basically to be done in place, I mean, we're going to rename everything anyway because of the package.
Changes, but is it essentially looking at being in place? Or is there something more fundamental about how it's done.
Because the buffer change is going to be done all over Nadia as well.
Yes, yes, totally. Yeah. I mean, apart from that, there is nothing fundamental that exchanging. I mean, there is there's a basic thing around, like, there is a basic like, control frame interface, which empty control, printing scans, but.
Nothing drastic yeah. Okay. Okay. Okay. It, it's, it's just, uh, to to allow us to do the before. We're ripping up everything.
That's right. Okay. Yes yes.
I know it's not related, but, um, are there plans to update or improve the APIs?
Um, I think in specific, nothing big per se, like, you have something in mind to them like, I have, we don't have.
Had a quick question. Um, so does the.
Connection level readability change, um.
Connection becomes remove the whole.
Like, it was, it was hard to hear you, uh.
The, if the connection readability changes to set up in office streams, uh, or does it just get to that?
1 control stream. Oh, so the readability would be like, would be on the channel channel right? Ability not readability.
Oh, yeah, the readability also, but like, all those callbacks will be same on a channel channel. Uh.
When there are like, the control window updates, basically.
Does that answer your question? So, each child channel would get updated within the connection level.
Credibility changes not the connection level. It will be for that stream.
What Carl's asking is, like, if we get a connection level, uh, window update.
Would that potentially propagate down to each channel child channel and calls the right ability change?
Yeah, that's cool. Yeah. Okay. I don't think that is the case right now, but it may be I mean, it is a good question to see, I'll I may have to check back, but it'll, it'll be on the control stream for sure.
I'll take some notes here too. Yeah. Good question. Yeah.
Okay, I think it probably should go to the streams, but.
We are incorporating flow control. I think we kind of have to do that. Yes, I'll take it away. Anyways.
You can keep the connection flow control, separate from the stream flow control, which has deficiencies as far as maybe memory usage, but has advantages as far as, um.
Waking up the world every single time you get a single window update so there's, there's going to be just trade offs there.
Right, right okay. And also in ever you wake up the child channels, there's some allegation allocation problems. Uh, basically, you're going to wake up 1 of them that when can then right? Which will then take it away.
Um, before the other ones have have even.
And it had a chance to consume it. I think earlier we were, I was purposely not doing that because otherwise you have severe fairness issues and things like that to work through.
I was just keeping the strings independent.
But there's I, I wouldn't be surprised if other people wanted to do it otherwise.
Okay, okay. Circle back Eric. I remember discussing this as well. So I have some some context there, but yeah, I'll take a note. We can circle back to this.
Cool. Cool. All right quick question about web socket. If I understand you correctly. Only upgrade possible.
Yeah, once with a connection upgrade kind of a.
Which is required for web sockets is it not supported in.
Yeah, so I so web sockets, I think if I understand it, right? The web socket upgrades would be on a stream.
If you are doing connect extended frame and.
That's why we need them to be able to use the web socket to do the handshake when we get to trim.
Thought at the end loss should be under this Fred specific frame.
And perform the end check and signal it to the application.
Yeah, yeah, so like, web socket, I, I have to see more and.
And I'm going to be doing, we don't know whether it works today also, but.
I will that's that's a good point. We can kind of like, look through once we have things in place, because he doesn't have like, anything related to WebSocket right now.
Thank you. Okay.
Great. Okay. Moving on. There's like 20 minutes left.
Okay, just yes. Ask a question. Yes. Uh, how about flushing.
That's actually refreshing. Yes. Or, uh, is there a global flush or fresh strategy that aggregate? So he's able to be batch to batch stuff.
Yeah, great. Let's go through the right and just include limited failure. Yeah. Okay. Um, so let's go to the control flow of, uh, rights.
Um, as you would expect, uh, there's a child channel you can write on the child channel using, like.
Chandler trade as usual uh.
You would expect to go through the user handler 1st um.
Validates there are a few validation on the night. We are kind of lax on validations venue. Right? Because like, you can write the way you want.
Then the next step comes in where, in the flow control handler intercepts the message or the frame that you're writing there is there is a queue inside this low control. Handler.
Which, basically looks at the.
Writable bites allowed for that channel. Uh, if it is not writable, it will queue. And then when the bites, uh, when more trades are available, basically, um.
Uh, pass through the right. Uh, essentially, but in the pipeline.
Um, did, uh, and this is.
So, uh, there is this another, um.
Yeah, so the, the flow control handler basically, uh, and I, I covered a little bit in the for the slides but, uh, since there is this, um.
Like, interaction between parent and the child channels for flow control. There are packaged private APIs, um, that, uh, enables that interaction between parent and child. I'll go through it a bit.
Uh, in the in the slides coming up.
Uh, and then after the flow control, handle, it passes through the frames, it gets included into bytes, goes through the unsafe and which essentially, right on the parent channel.
The thing that you would see differently here is, uh.
There are no flashes strategies, uh, children as you will kind of pointing out. Uh, we always write on the parent channel and then.
Because they're like different from today. Uh.
Any plus strategy that you put on the parent.
Could be used,
uh,
so by default,
we could do the same thing as we're doing today around like,
unless we have finished reading,
we don't flush and at the end of the meeting,
we flash or you can add any more strategies,
which is different than today because it is right now,
like,
kind of inside the and say,
um.
Implementation, but that's that's a flush on the child channel, produces a flush on the parent channel. It's not that are right on the the.
Child channel produces a flush on the parent.
So like this, this right this right and flush, uh, for the near the unsafe that's only generated by a flush on the child channel.
A normal buffering, um.
It right before that unsafe. Correct correct that's correct.
Yes, but once it gets to the parent, you can you can add your plus strategies.
Just mentioning Julian did that answer your question about.
I see what what.
Is trying to be achieved or why is the, like, most of this I can sort of see where you're trying to go and what benefits you're trying to do and so this, the flow control handler on the child channel on the frames and coder.
On the child channel, what's.
Why are this on the child channel? What? What advantages is that getting us or what it promises? It's all.
In in my mind, I always more.
Children did you do you say some time.
No, sorry, I was just sending a colon seeing. I have to call back later so.
Okay oh, no worries. Um, uh, so, Eric, like, uh, what my intention here was to basically, like, make it.
More clear from the pipeline as to what is happening on the channel, which gives us better visibility, uh, around, like, each channel events. That is the motivation for putting it on the channel channel.
But you could, I mean, we can just use the normal flow control handler in.
Is is this allows us.
Does this allow us to just change the full control handler per stream if we wanted to have a different strategy per stream or what.
Because, like, it actually makes it more uptake in my mind because you're not, you're just gonna see bytes now between the child channel and the parent channel.
The frames and coder can't even encode headers because that's kinda deal with. So the only thing you're encoding there and window updates aren't going through it. So, the only thing you're encoding there is HP data frames.
Which sounds sort of like, what's the point.
So, hey, this campaign coded, uh.
Because, I mean, you need the window unless unless you're sharing the H pack encoder across the different.
That yeah, that would be the intent here, but then you, that's very scary because the flush behavior, like, those can get reordered. Very trivially.
Um, that's that's beyond scary to me. Like, it can maybe be made to work, but.
Um, if we were, if we, like, we're running these on different threads or something like that, I could also understand, you know, us trying to split things off. But, um.
These are all pretty much together. Uh, I would say.
Are so the flow control handler that does not use window updates between the.
The parent channel on the child channel, that's just a direct.
Method calls is that right? So we're avoiding the overhead of the.
New updates, uh, are we good? Uh, today it is writing the window update in the.
But, I mean, we could do that. I'm assuming you. Okay. That's fine.
I was I'm just trying to seek out what, what advantages we're we're we're getting because I like writing the Windows updates sounds a lot nicer if we can.
You know, those sorts of things are great if we can get away with it.
Okay, I guess I just question we can move on, but I question having the, the, the encoder.
And maybe even the flow control handler, um.
Okay, okay yeah, if the flow control handler is just handling the buffering.
Um, yes, that is what it is doing today. So, uh.
Okay, yeah, yeah. Good point. I think let's noted down from from the APAC point of view. I mean, what made it more be more comfortable doing that was that we are doing the same thing for it's like you back. So, uh.
But, but like, when when we get to it, maybe maybe it's quicker.
You can do it. Yep. Yeah I think that's a good comment. I took a note here, Eric, and we can circle back to that. I know we had similar discussions internally so I think that's probably worth revisiting.
Totally, totally. Is that.
Okay, um.
Cool yeah, I have a couple of questions. Okay. Sorry yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
The 1st question is, is the frame on quarter.
I'm calling for the frame, or is it on calling the content and then the, the.
The pound channel will take care of on coding the, the prefix and, uh, the adding of everything.
Now, everything is included by the payment code today. It will be yes.
Otherwise there will be a copy. Oh, yeah. Yeah. So is your question is, um.
How does the application interacts with different control? Uh, ideally, it doesn't.
Okay, because the interface here is only frames. So, like, if you want to do something, you basically write the frame.
Yeah, but how can I be aware of that? There's a, I shouldn't that's showing happening. I should not be true and you shouldn't be writing frames and when I, when I can when the 2 internal tree is drained, how can I resume activities.
Got it got it that's like the, the, the, uh, uh.
Apis of basically that's what it is translated to.
Okay, you would get the channel, right? And let you change the event yes.
Thank you. Cool. Awesome.
Uh, so we went over a little bit about the APIs, the structure per se. Uh, but like, this is this is kind of listing notable APA changes.
1st thing, uh, which seems which is different, is that you can actually explicitly create a stream, uh, using channel.
Uh, which gives us screen channel, uh, um, interface back extensive channels, just regular channel, uh, and, uh, the stream States.
Uh, this is how they are mapped, uh, onto, like, the native channel events not everything is mapped, but we have done like, what, what makes the best sense over here.
Um.
Pass through this, because this is something where we can probably, uh, discuss offline to, uh.
As I was mentioning before there are a few validators which we have, like, uh.
Got inspiration from they basically, like, put together, uh, all related validations uh, these are the 3 validations that exist today.
Uh, this was the SSL context, uh, related to the previous question.
Uh, and this again, like, up for discussion, uh, this seems a little heavy handed for this kind of just 1 feature, which is like, 1, uh, like lpn handling but this is how it exists today.
Like, on the Excel context, Bill builder, you can say I want to support also and this is my initiatives a pipeline, which makes it a little easier to do 1 and 2 both.
This is kind of what we were talking about and flow control 1 distinct change here is.
That we are trying to reduce the APIs, which are which we are allowing folks to.
To have like a totally custom look control, uh, algorithm, uh.
What it would mean is that you would have to, like, remove the flow control, handles that exist and use your own doing the things that you want to.
So this is this may be a bigger change if you were doing a full control, uh, custom token, rely algorithms today.
Um, if we do, uh, see more people interested, we can probably, like, bring back thing. But that's that's kind of what.
Yes, uh, at at the moment we standard alarms is this is this something? Okay. Okay.
In case, you're not aware I think the assumption from our side is we, we currently have 2 algorithms, um, 1, which, like, cares about priority and builds the priority tree, et cetera that's used by default. So, like, if you don't change anything, that's what you're getting.
The performance was improved a while ago, so it, it works. Well, in the default case, we also have a.
You can opt out where you don't pay the cost to building the priority tree.
Um, and kind of do piecemeal allocations and we, uh, for the use cases, we've seen either 1 of those seem to be sufficient.
But, yeah, it's in touch that if anyone.
Has more custom use cases now would be the time.
To let us know as we're planning on, kind of just supporting those 2.
Uh, algorithms that you can specify from the outside, rather than exposing APIs to directly control this, which are a bit more involved and cross different layers.
Although if someone didn't want any help making flow control API with this new set up.
It's just a handler, right? Yep. Yep. It's a handler.
But barring the, the, the packaged private interaction between.
Oh, okay. Okay. Okay. That's that's great. Okay. Okay. Yes. Yes.
Okay, okay cool.
Moving on, like, this is going over the same things. So this may say, um, this may make this smarter, uh, like, basically, like, the interaction is through a custom interface just called, like, um.
Distributed or something, uh, and you can, you can basically register reading right side, uh, create the distributions.
And then there are these 2, uh, like, there are a few callbacks on the parent handler, which tells, like, when invite is written by different.
Essentially, um, otherwise you get the credits, uh, from the, from the parent channel.
So, if if whenever.
Okay, so I guess it will trigger. This will be a little bit chatting between the 2, right?
Right, yes, yes, yes they will be the credit distribution coming from parent to child.
And child to pen, it would be callbacks when it is consumed.
And whenever there's window updates, whenever the child is told of window updates that can cause rights.
Um, directly. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Thank you.
All right.
Any more questions and control cool. Uh, we have about 5 minutes. Yes, yes yes.
Yeah, this is kind of like the last bit, I think. Yeah. Um, so, uh, as I was mentioning is something that exists today, it's just an experiment, uh, get feedback.
Otherwise, I mean, it's more likely we'll remove it, but we see how it goes. So, I'll not spend a lot of time on it. I'll, I'll go on the examples real quick.
This is how this is a good example. Look like, um.
So, you basically create this little context and then when you're building the codec, you give this thing called any visualizer, uh, which is provided by the by the binary itself.
Uh, the thing that it gives you control over that you can initialize the control stream as well as this request stream. So, every time there is a new request being accepted on a channel, uh, you would get a call back here and you can initialize that stream.
And this, the service stream initialize it is, uh, it's basically for each connection.
Um, and then, well, and then there is like an inbound handler that you can use to, like, just, uh, if you, it's a simple app, they can get just, like, get callbacks data.
And the best you can use your own. This is a bit simple, but but the code wise, it looks very much like, it should be 3 essentially.
Um, I'll go with the client, and then we can ask, uh, like, we can have some time to spend on on the questions in Central.
The client side is a little bit more involved. The.
The initializes are for each connection, so whenever you have to connect, you have to create this initialize it, uh, similar to the server. You would have a way to initialize the control stream.
And, uh, Ben, for that particular channel, when you initializing the channel, you're creating the builder, you would pass that initialize that.
Uh, now, since we basically, like, there should be to channel implementations.
Wrap the existing channel. So what this and this is something that, like, open for feedback this is what I figured would be the easiest way to do.
Uh, you would, you can convert the Connect future to channel, connect future, using this method, uh, which gives you the, um, uh, the actually be the channel.
and then you can use it should be channel to create streams as much as you want uh same stuff you on the stream you would have um
You would have the, the request stream inbound handle. I didn't have anything like, highlighting that, but for that stream, you can create your request stream in bone handling just like, on the server to handle per request. Uh, and then you can write to the stream.
Uh, and then essentially, like, read the response, uh, using that handler.
So, that's how the examples look like.
Again, apologies, we are running out of time, but but like, we can, we can spend a few minutes to ask, uh, like questions or thoughts around examples. Per se this is the last slide.
Uh, small question on the implementation is it the channels still using the channel framework?
No, no, no embedded channels there. Okay.
Thank you quick question.
But, yeah, I was just saying, I don't think we used to enter the channel.
Today as well, yeah, yeah. We only we only use them for compression at the moment.
But that's it, which, which also not been removed. Yes, we have the channels and streaming closer to the local channel.
That because that's what it was copy from.
true true it is yeah and also copies from the existing yes it is to
Inhibiting that, so so a lot of these things were things that we gave up before, um, what things do we think how do we think we can get that.
Performance, so there were we have less synchronization in the pipeline now.
Then back back, then we can maybe optimize the child channel.
Uh, itself creation and something like that but, like, 1 of the things we gave up in order for performance was just separating the frame codec from the multiplex codec because those 2 were originally separate.
And now the, the multiplex extends the frame. Codec.
So that Eric, that's not true anymore. I mean, we still have it, but it's duplicated. So, these days, actually, um, you can use both as a separate handler.
And, um, you can yeah, the last time we did the benchmark, it didn't make a lot of difference actually. Okay, great. Great. So, those are already split up.
Yeah, um, yeah, and I had hopes that I'd be able to split up the, the, um.
That we'd be able to split up the flow control handler into its own.
So, I, I guess at some point, we'll just talk more about the, the child channel.
Yeah, it's, it's also about like, the overhead that you actually have when the pipeline becomes.
Longer right. I mean, it's not only the problem the channel, it's also a problem in itself.
We kind of, um, removed some of the overhead here by, um, adding like the skip annotation kind of thing, right?
And, um, all of these, these annotations are actually present on the default implementation. So as long as you don't overwrite them, you don't pay any price for them.
I think that's 1 of the, the things that that helped when we, um.
That allowed us to split these handlers as well.
So, Carl, I know you raise your hand, let's finish this and then we can so.
There's 1, overarching concern for me, uh, which is like.
There's a new nitty version coming out and there's a new API coming out. Um, which means that, like.
If there are problems that we didn't proceed, like, it'll be very hard to back out. So I'm wondering, like.
What is the release ordering for this? And have you seen substantial.
Uh, application code, using this new API to, like, you know.
Take it for a spin, um.
Quick question, Carolyn, and I think that's that's kind of like what is coming with 95. there's a ton of changes like.
Starting from buffer to other APIs like, it is.
Very different than, uh, then for so, I think, like, totally, like, there would be challenges, like, adopting it and particularly production. Our intent.
Now, as as we would, uh, initially mentioning.
Is to, like, do an alpha release and in February.
Uh, and then, like, kind of like, work with different frameworks and different, like, contributors to, to, to roll this out. I would see, like, different alpha version so different frameworks coming up.
Using this thing,
uh,
yeah,
concerning the release,
you mentioned the alpha in February 2022 uh,
do you have,
um,
estimates for the,
for the,
I mean,
for the data and final and what what.
I know I'm not asking for dates. I'm asking what's in your mind and what's your vision?
Yes, yeah, yeah.
I think, like, uh, our thought right now, uh, Norman and Scott, like, jump in. But our thought right now is to I, I think once we have the release, it'll people get more serious will be able to actually integrate and use it.
To get more feedback. So based on that feedback from our side, I think we will, we will see that. The APIs are kind of where we want them to be. Uh, and then based on the feedback, we iterate a little. So I am.
I am like, at least internally what we have thought about is through, like, September timeframe, we should be able to get to a release candidate sort of.
Uh, is what is another line at this point?
Yep sounds good. Yeah. Yeah.
I think I think that's right. I think that's what we're certainly shooting for, but I think Karl kind of hit the nail on the head that it's also subject to getting some real usage and, like, right now this is a prototype API.
So, we certainly have internal discussions, but, like, I think, you know, we will learn more when the rubber meets the road.
And we start getting, like, releases that can be used in, like, a more real capacity. So, timelines might shift based upon, you know, that feedback and.
Experience we get us as we, as we go through that process.
It looks though that most of this is going to be the same from the user's perspective.
Like, you're going to have a construction pattern to be slightly different, but other than that.
It doesn't seem that invasive. I mean, implementation wise, there's, there's a lot going on, but it it doesn't seem.
It seems like no, 1 for some applications might no, 1 might notice this change.
Yeah, I think depending on where you are in the stack for sure this could be transparent. I mean, obviously there's API changes, but yeah, the semantics, the goal, like, the semantics of aren't changing.
So, like, we for sure want to clean up the APIs, consolidate, improve performance, that type of thing, but right. There's still child channels.
Events still flow on the child channels. We'll work out the details and flow control and how do we do some initialization optimizations but.
I think you're right, Eric, it's, it's not like, you know, totally different paradigm. We're introduced.
I think the, the more fundamental change, the buffer stuff actually.
Like, you know, like, um, I mean, in in an ideal world, like, the buffer would not be reference counted anymore.
Because, I mean, as you all know, it's pretty painful and it's hard to get right?
So, there's hope that we may be able to get rid of that.
So, we'll see for it because buffers are so painful. I'd really like to see that get back ported as a Shim and 4 dot 1.
So that you can upgrade or something like that. I actually know we are going to maybe do the Shim the opposite way. Maybe ship to the old and the.
In 5.0, but 1 way or the other, we're really going to need something like that. And there's a couple of other APIs where just adding the new API to 41 or something like that. It's.
Doesn't have to be as good as good a performance or other things that.
You know, W, we'll gain and 5, but, um, will will help.
Migrating without writing and speaking for followed 1. uh, let's say 95 is released in September. Uh, how long do you plan to support for 1?
I guess that's a good question. I mean, we don't yeah, we don't know for sure yet, but I would say, at least a few years, I guess, is the right 1.
Because it's used so heavily, I think we have no choice. Other than that.
Um, but, yeah, definitely I mean, it will not go away for at least like 12 years for sure.
The changes frequency would reduce dot 1 essentially. Yeah. Which which, I think is also a good thing because, I mean, that also means that it's it's.
Less likely to get 3 questions there and make it more stable because, I mean, the reality is that it won't be a very lax.
And what we merged into for that 1 and whatnot.
And, um, I think, um, once we are, once we are ready with 50 to have, like, the 1st, like, alpha or whatever we should, we should be much more strict about what gets big port and whatnot.
Right. Which would also help to, um.
They have people upgrade, right? They need they want to have a new features so they need to upgrade and, um, for all the others, it's basically more about like.
Correctness I would say the same as, you know, I mean, maybe if there's some, something super, super important, maybe we will back port it, but there's no guarantee.
If it's not a bug fix, basically the same as for, for example, or whatever.
Kind of projects you, you're talking about.
All right.
We are 10 minutes over. I'm happy to stay back if we have more questions.
There any action items for people on the call uh, it sounds like you're looking for people to be early adopters of.
95, starting on February, anything else definitely like review the fear. That will be super. Yeah. To give feedback.
The action items that I've captured here is circling back with, like, encoder and flow controller on the child channel. Um, you know, Eric is a stakeholder interested in that and we'll drive that discussion also some questions about protocol upgrades. Um.
Like, supporting, or not. What about web sockets? We need to do some investigation there. Um, so those are action items that have captured.
On our end, but yeah, certainly everybody take a look at the PR, take a look at the examples. If you have feedback.
Definitely to us.
Yeah, also about the new buff API if you, if you didn't have a chance yet to look at it. I mean, it's also like a big change as well.
The the next minute could be about the new.
Happy to discuss that we had a meet up previously and we can share the content from that. Um, but, yeah, if there's more questions, if people have started to, like, pick it up with with more earnest.
And, yeah, happy to discuss that what we can do is probably capture that wiki and.
Uh, list of topics that people are interested in, and, you know, maybe we can drive content based on that. I think the buffer API changed quite a bit based on that last meeting. We had. So, um.
You might want to just go to the repo.
Again, because there were some substantial, uh, simplifications and.
Tweaks and things have different names now than they did before, even though the the same thing.
Um, so I'm, I'm not sure if if looking at the old.
Slides will confuse me more or help you more.
And maybe, at least some of the more introductory slides would still be helpful.
That's good. Good.
Plan for to.
Issue we can't hear you. Could you be a little louder.
So, what I'm saying, do we have plans to release 3 in the release.
Ah, good question, like, normal what do you feel? Um, I mean, I think, I mean, what we talked to, what we talked about before, uh, in terms of 95, is that we want to have for, like, uh.
Good luck and and, um, they decide what should be in the core, um, repository and what should not.
And I think this question goes in line with that. So, at the moment is probably most of, you know, I mean, any kind of.
Over the last few years and, um, I think as of today, I mean.
We accepted maybe a little bit too much code in terms of we have a lot of codex there that are not widely used and maybe not as good maintain that the others in terms of code quality and all that kind of stuff.
So would like to have, like, a hard look and decide what exactly should be in the core and whatnot, which doesn't mean that we don't support it but to also allow to give, like, different, um, release strategies.
To some extent, or let that stuff bake a little bit more.
Before we merge it, so I think, um, is definitely an interesting, um.
Topic for, especially because more and more people will use it.
I'm just not sure if it will live in the corps or not.
Probably it will, because, I mean, H1, H2 day, 3, I guess these are like, what you standards, but.
All right. I was very good.
Yeah, the moment it depends on 84 1. all right.
Um, yeah, uh, so do you plan to make it dependent on on 95 or.
We will so, I mean, we will definitely have 1, 4, 5 0.
That depends on on these APIs.
I guess it's more the question if the code will be merged into the main repository or not.
And also, maybe maybe something, which is not super related to the whole H2 thing, but I think we definitely should also merge the TC, native bits into the main branch of, to make it easier.
To release their cell stuff and don't have any mismatches and all that kind of stuff.
Okay all right.
More questions, concerns commands.
All right. Okay, cool. So, like, I think, I mean, we'll, we'll share the recording. We'll hear the slides.
The, the action items exist and figure out how to do.
Figure out how to how to start the monthly monthly meet ups.
Thank you everyone for joining and again sorry for the initial.
Communication everybody thanks a lot. Yeah, bye. Thank you. Thanks everyone for joining you take care. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye.